README.md, before:

# Python Chefalizer

A Python implementation of the [Encheferizer](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~jbc/home/chef.html).

This uses the PLY library (Python Lex Yacc) to use very similar semantics to the 
original Encheferizer.

# Examples

## Simple usage

If you have some text, such as this excerpt from
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swedish_Chef), in a file named `sample.txt`:

> A parody of television chefs, the Swedish Chef wears a toque blanche and has
> bushy eyebrows that completely obscure his eyes. He was one of the few
> Muppets to employ an actual puppeteer's hands, originally Oz's, in the
> designs – that is, they were visible to the audience through his sleeves
> and facilitated handling food and utensils.
>
> Nearly all Swedish Chef sketches on The Muppet Show begin featuring him within
> a kitchen environment, waving some utensils while singing his signature
> yodel-esque song in his typical mock Swedish – a semi-comprehensible gibberish
> mimicking Swedish phonology and prosody. The song's lyrics vary slightly from
> one episode to the next, but always end with "Bork, bork, bork!" as the Chef
> throws the utensils (or whatever else may be in his hands) aside with a
>  clatter that seems to startle him.
>
> After this introduction, the Chef begins to prepare a recipe while giving a
> gibberish explanation of what he is doing. His commentary is spiced with the
> occasional English word to clue in the viewer to what he is attempting; for
> example, "Aweenda shmure da froog's legs" or "Yur puurt thuur chiir-ken airn
> der bewl". These hints are necessary as he frequently uses unorthodox culinary
> equipment (firearms, sports equipment, hand tools, etc.) to prepare his dishes.
> In the pilot episode of The Muppet Show, the Chef's commentary was
>  supplemented by Chinese subtitles,[citation needed] but this was abandoned
> for all other episodes of the series. The sketch typically degenerates into a
> slapstick finale where the equipment or ingredients (usually a live
> chicken/goat/cow etc.) get the better of him.

Then executing `./chefalizer < sample.txt` might produce the following output:

> A perudy ooff telefeesiun cheffs, zee Svedish Cheff veers a tuqooe-a
> blunche-a und hes booshy iyebroos thet cumpletely oobscoore-a his iyes.
> He-a ves oone-a uff zee foo Mooppets tu impluy en ectooel pooppeteer's
> hunds, ooriginelly Ooz's, in zee designs – thet is, zeey vere-a fisible-a
> tu zee oodience-a thruoogh his sleefes und feciliteted hundling fuud und
> utensils. Bork bork bork.
>
> Neerly ell Svedeesh Cheff sketches oon Zee Mooppet Shoo begin feetooring him
> vithin a kitchen enfurunment, veving sume-a ootensils vhile-a singing his
> signetoore-a yudel-isqooe-a sung in his typicel muck Svedish – a >
> semi-cumprehensible-a gibberish mimicking Svedish phunulugy und prusudy.
> Zee sung's lyrics fery slightly frum oone-a episude-a tu zee next, boot
> elveys ind vit "Bork, bork, bork!" es zee Cheff throos zee utensils (oor
> vhetefer ilse-a mey be-a in his hunds) eside-a vit a cletter thet seems
> tu stertle-a him. Bork bork bork.

> Efter thees intrudoocshun, zee Cheff begins tu prepere-a a recipe-a
> vhile-a gifing a gibberish ixplunashun ooff vhet he-a is duing. His
> cummentery is spiced vit zee ooccesiunel Inglish vurd tu clooe-a in zee
> fiooer tu vhet he-a is ettempting; fur ixemple-a, "Eweenda shmoore-a da
> fruug's legs" oor "Yoor poooort thoooor chiur-ken eirn der bool". Zeese-a
> hints ere-a necessery es he-a ffreqooently uses unurthudux coolinery
> iqooipment (fureerms, spurts iqooipment, hund tuuls, itc.) tu prepere-a
> his dishes. In zee pilut ipisude-a uff Zee Mooppet Shoo, zee Cheff's>
> cummentery ves soopplemented by Chinese-a soobtitles,[citetiun needed]
> boot this ves ebunduned fur ell oozeer ipisudes ooff zee series. Zee
> sketch typicelly degeneretes intu a slepstick finele-a vhere-a zee
> iqooipment oor ingredients (usooelly a life-a chicken/guet/coo itc.)
> get zee better ooff him. Bork bork bork.

## Converting manual pages to Chef

This example taken from MacOS; it'll be similar on other POSIX platforms.

```bash
zcat path-to-manpage.1.gz | \
    chefalizer | \
    tbl | \
    groff -Wall -mtty-char -Tascii -mandoc -c | \
    less

```

## Converting manual pages to Chef and HTML

```bash
zcat path-to-manpage.1.gz | \
    chefalizer | \
    man2html > /var/www/chef/out.html
```

Commit message:

Better re-capitalization
Some of the patterns require replacement of a token with multiple letters.
This requires we do something to match the alphabetic case of the source text;
That is "Aa" becomes "Oo" or "AA" into "OO". The previous heuristic was not
terribly effective so now we iterate the characters of the entire token and
actively check the case, setting the output character appropriately. This is
not terribly efficient but it works.

README.md, after:

# Python Chefalizer

A Python implementation of the [Encheferizer](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~jbc/home/chef.html).

This uses the PLY library (Python Lex Yacc) to use very similar semantics to the 
original Encheferizer.

# Examples

## Simple usage

If you have some text, such as this excerpt from
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swedish_Chef), in a file named `sample.txt`:

> A parody of television chefs, the Swedish Chef wears a toque blanche and has
> bushy eyebrows that completely obscure his eyes. He was one of the few
> Muppets to employ an actual puppeteer's hands, originally Oz's, in the
> designs – that is, they were visible to the audience through his sleeves
> and facilitated handling food and utensils.
>
> Nearly all Swedish Chef sketches on The Muppet Show begin featuring him within
> a kitchen environment, waving some utensils while singing his signature
> yodel-esque song in his typical mock Swedish – a semi-comprehensible gibberish
> mimicking Swedish phonology and prosody. The song's lyrics vary slightly from
> one episode to the next, but always end with "Bork, bork, bork!" as the Chef
> throws the utensils (or whatever else may be in his hands) aside with a
>  clatter that seems to startle him.
>
> After this introduction, the Chef begins to prepare a recipe while giving a
> gibberish explanation of what he is doing. His commentary is spiced with the
> occasional English word to clue in the viewer to what he is attempting; for
> example, "Aweenda shmure da froog's legs" or "Yur puurt thuur chiir-ken airn
> der bewl". These hints are necessary as he frequently uses unorthodox culinary
> equipment (firearms, sports equipment, hand tools, etc.) to prepare his dishes.
> In the pilot episode of The Muppet Show, the Chef's commentary was
>  supplemented by Chinese subtitles,[citation needed] but this was abandoned
> for all other episodes of the series. The sketch typically degenerates into a
> slapstick finale where the equipment or ingredients (usually a live
> chicken/goat/cow etc.) get the better of him.

Then executing `./chefalizer < sample.txt` might produce the following output:

> A perudy ooff telefeesiun cheffs, zee Svedish Cheff veers a tuqooe-a
> blunche-a und hes booshy iyebroos thet cumpletely oobscoore-a his iyes.
> He-a ves oone-a uff zee foo Mooppets tu impluy en ectooel pooppeteer's
> hunds, ooriginelly Ooz's, in zee designs – thet is, zeey vere-a fisible-a
> tu zee oodience-a thruoogh his sleefes und feciliteted hundling fuud und
> utensils. Bork bork bork.
>
> Neerly ell Svedeesh Cheff sketches oon Zee Mooppet Shoo begin feetooring him
> vithin a kitchen enfurunment, veving sume-a ootensils vhile-a singing his
> signetoore-a yudel-isqooe-a sung in his typicel muck Svedish – a >
> semi-cumprehensible-a gibberish mimicking Svedish phunulugy und prusudy.
> Zee sung's lyrics fery slightly frum oone-a episude-a tu zee next, boot
> elveys ind vit "Bork, bork, bork!" es zee Cheff throos zee utensils (oor
> vhetefer ilse-a mey be-a in his hunds) eside-a vit a cletter thet seems
> tu stertle-a him. Bork bork bork.

> Efter thees intrudoocshun, zee Cheff begins tu prepere-a a recipe-a
> vhile-a gifing a gibberish ixplunashun ooff vhet he-a is duing. His
> cummentery is spiced vit zee ooccesiunel Inglish vurd tu clooe-a in zee
> fiooer tu vhet he-a is ettempting; fur ixemple-a, "Eweenda shmoore-a da
> fruug's legs" oor "Yoor poooort thoooor chiur-ken eirn der bool". Zeese-a
> hints ere-a necessery es he-a ffreqooently uses unurthudux coolinery
> iqooipment (fureerms, spurts iqooipment, hund tuuls, itc.) tu prepere-a
> his dishes. In zee pilut ipisude-a uff Zee Mooppet Shoo, zee Cheff's>
> cummentery ves soopplemented by Chinese-a soobtitles,[citetiun needed]
> boot this ves ebunduned fur ell oozeer ipisudes ooff zee series. Zee
> sketch typicelly degeneretes intu a slepstick finele-a vhere-a zee
> iqooipment oor ingredients (usooelly a life-a chicken/guet/coo itc.)
> get zee better ooff him. Bork bork bork.

## Converting manual pages to Chef

The Chefalizer recognizes roff sequences and leaves them intact; this means
you can easily Chefalize your man pages!

This example taken from MacOS; it'll be similar on other POSIX platforms.

```bash
zcat path-to-manpage.1.gz | \
    chefalizer | \
    tbl | \
    groff -Wall -mtty-char -Tascii -mandoc -c | \
    less

```

## Converting manual pages to Chef and HTML

```bash
zcat path-to-manpage.1.gz | \
    chefalizer | \
    man2html > /var/www/chef/out.html
```
